Add language updates to release note of 2201.3.0 (#2180)
ballerina-platform/ballerina-release: release-notes/swan-lake-release-notes/swan-lake-2201.3.0-release-note.md

## Language updates

> ### New Features

Author: ```suggestion
### New features
```

> ### New features
> 
> 
> #### Added a new field to the `display` annotation

Author: ```suggestion
### New features

#### Added a new field to the `display` annotation
```

### New features

> ##### Support to import a non-Ballerina interface definition as a module that defines a client

Reviewer: ```suggestion
##### Support to import a non-Ballerina interface definition as a module that defines a client
```
This is too long for a heading. Can we consider summarising it?

A module client declaration can be used with a supported non-Ballerina interface definition to generate a client module corresponding to the definition. The prefix used in the client declaration can then be used to access constructs from the generated module.

```ballerina
import ballerina/io;

client "petstore.yaml" as petstore;

public function main() returns error? {
    petstore:client petstoreClient = check new;

    petstore:Pets pets = check petstoreClient->/pets();

    foreach petstore:Pet pet in pets {
        string? petType = pet.'type;

        if petType is string {
            io:println(string `Pet type: ${petType}, name: ${pet.name}`);
        } else {
            io:println(string `Pet name: ${pet.name}`);
        }
    }
}
```

> The reserved `client` keyword can be used in a qualified identifier (`petstore:client`) without a quoted identifier. This is specifically allowed when the module prefix (`petstore`) is defined using a client declaration.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The reserved `client` keyword can be used in a qualified identifier (`petstore:client`) without a quoted identifier to refer to the client in the generated module. This is specifically allowed when the module prefix (`petstore`) is defined using a client declaration.
```

> The reserved `client` keyword can be used in a qualified identifier (`petstore:client`) without a quoted identifier. This is specifically allowed when the module prefix (`petstore`) was defined using a client declaration.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The reserved `client` keyword can be used in a qualified identifier (`petstore:client`) without a quoted identifier. This is specifically allowed when the module prefix (`petstore`) is defined using a client declaration.
```

The Swan Lake Update 3 release supports OpenAPI and GraphQL definitions in client declarations.

> #### Add new field to display annotation

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Added a new field to display the annotation
```

> #### Added a new field to display the annotation

Reviewer 2: This is wrong?

```suggestion
#### Added a new field to the `display` annotation
```

> New metadata called `kind` has been introduced to `display` annotation in order to catagorize the kind of the record field.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A new metadata called `kind` has been introduced to `display` the annotation in order to categorize the kind of the record field.
```

> A new metadata called `kind` has been introduced to `display` the annotation in order to categorize the kind of the record field.

Reviewer 2: Is it valid to say it is the kind of the record field? The `display` annotation is allowed on various constructs, not just record fields. 

Docs say `kind of the data`. Can we say something similar?

```suggestion
A new field named `kind` has been introduced to the `display` annotation to indicate the kind of the data. Allowed values are "text", "password", and "file".
```

```ballerina

> public type RefreshTokenGrantConfig record {|
>     @display {iconPath: "Field.icon", label: "clientSecret field", kind: "password"}
>     string clientSecret;
> |};

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
public type RefreshTokenGrantConfig record {|
    @display {
        iconPath: "Field.icon",
        label: "clientSecret field",
        kind: "password"
    }
    string clientSecret;
|};
```

```

#### Added support for function pointers with defaultable parameters

> Function pointers are now allowed with default values for function pointer parameters. Any expression can be used as the default value of a function pointer parameter.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Function pointers are now allowed with default values for parameters. Any expression can be used as the default value of a function pointer parameter.
```

```ballerina

> public function main() {
> 	int num1 = 100;
> 	int num2 = 50;
> 	int num3 = 25;
> 
> 	function(int a = 0, int b = 0, int c = 0) returns int total = getSum;
>     
> 	io:println(total()); // Prints `0`.
> 	io:println(total(num1, num2)); // Prints `150`.
> 	io:println(total(num1, num2, num3)); // Prints `175`.
> }
> 
> function getSum(int num1, int num2, int num3) returns int {
> 	return num1 + num2 + num3;
> }

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
import ballerina/io;

public function main() {
    int num1 = 100;
    int num2 = 50;
    int num3 = 25;
    function (int a = 0, int b = 0, int c = 0) returns int total = getSum;

    io:println(total()); // Prints `0`.
    io:println(total(num1, num2)); // Prints `150`.
    io:println(total(num1, num2, num3)); // Prints `175`.
}

function getSum(int num1, int num2, int num3) returns int {
    return num1 + num2 + num3;
}
```

```

### Improvements

#### More improvements on working with optional fields

If there is an optional field `T x?;` in a record, the absence of `x` is represented by nil where `T` does not allow nil.

```ballerina
type Topt record {
    int x?;
    int y?;
};

public function main() {
    Topt t = {x: 2, y: 4};
    t.x = ();

    t = {x: 2};
    var {x: _, y} = t;
    io:println(y is ()); // true

    int? xOrNil = ();
    t = {x: xOrNil, y: 5};
    io:println(t.x is ()); // true
}

> 

Reviewer 2: Shall we improve this example to use a real-world use case (e.g., employee, student, etc.)?

```

> #### Make the terminating semicolon optional for module-level declarations

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Made the terminating semicolon optional for module-level declarations
```

> #### Made the terminating semicolon optional for module-level declarations

Reviewer 2: IMO, this reads like we've made previously mandatory terminating semicolons optional now. But, what we've done is allowed an semicolon, right? Shall we rephrase?

> Previously a closing semicolon was not allowed after following module-level declarations.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Previously, a closing semicolon was not allowed after the module-level declarations below.
```

> - Function-defn-body

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `Function-defn-body`
```

> - Service-declaration

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- the service declaration
```

> - module-class-defn

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `module-class-defn`
```

> - module-enum-decl

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `module-enum-decl`
```

>   Now the user can optionally end these declarations with a semicolon.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  Now, you can optionally end these declarations with a semicolon.
```

> ### Backward incompatible changes

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Backward-incompatible changes
```
Is this the same as `Breaking changes`? We already have a section for that.

#### Disallow using the `-9223372036854775808` unary expression as an integer

> Previously `-9223372036854775808` was allowed to be assigned to an integer in Ballerina. It is now disallowed to comply with the language specification, thus, attempting to assign `-9223372036854775808` to an `int` will now give an error.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Previously, `-9223372036854775808` was allowed to be assigned to an integer in Ballerina. It is now disallowed to comply with the language specification, thus, attempting to assign `-9223372036854775808` to an `int` will now give an error.
```

> Previously, `-9223372036854775808` was allowed to be assigned to an integer in Ballerina. It is now disallowed to comply with the language specification, thus, attempting to assign `-9223372036854775808` to an `int` will now give an error.

Reviewer 2: I think we need to mention the "why" part here. Mentioning that it is a unary expression which makes `9223372036854775808` out of range for `int`.

Reviewer 3: The reason is, in ballerina the unary expression is not part of the numeric value, they are two different entities. Furthermore, ballerina deems that the numeric value `9223372036854775808` is out of range for integer. Therefore, even when a valid unary expression is introduced to `9223372036854775808` numeric value, when evaluating the value itself it will still be out of range for integer right?

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Previously, `-9223372036854775808` was allowed to be assigned to an integer in Ballerina. However, according to the language specification, `-9223372036854775808` is considered as a unary expression, which requires the expression  after `-` to be a valid value for `int`. Therefore, `-9223372036854775808` now results in a compilation error since `9223372036854775808` is out of range for `int`.
```

```
int result = -9223372036854775808; // error: '9223372036854775808' is out of range for 'int'
```

> ## Compiler API Updates

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Compiler API updates
```

### Improvements

> #### Added a few methods to the `NodeParser` API

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
#### Syntax API
```

The following methods have been introduced for the `NodeParser` class.
- `Node parseObjectMember(String text)`
- `ModulePartNode parseModulePart(String text)`

> - `IntermediateClauseNode parseIntermediateClause(String text, boolean allowActions)`

Reviewer 4: Shouldn't this go under Syntax API? since we have semantic API and diagnostic API, we have to add those changes inside Compiler API

Author: I committed your suggested change. hope now the titles are all good.

> ### Backward incompatible changes

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Backward-incompatible changes
```
Is this the same as `Breaking changes`? We already have a section for that.

#### Update NodeFactory methods to allow optional terminating semicolon for module-level declarations

> Following methods in NodeFactory have been updated with an extra parameter for the optional semicolon token.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The methods below in the `NodeFactory` have been updated with an extra parameter for the optional semicolon token.
```

> - createServiceDeclarationNode

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `createServiceDeclarationNode`
```

> - createFunctionBodyBlockNode

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `createFunctionBodyBlockNode`
```

> - createEnumDeclarationNode

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `createEnumDeclarationNode`
```

> - createClassDefinitionNode

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `createClassDefinitionNode`
```

```ballerina
public type RefreshTokenGrantConfig record {|
    @display {
        iconPath: "Field.icon",
        label: "clientSecret field",
        kind: "password"
    }
    string clientSecret;
|};
```

#### Added support for function pointers with defaultable parameters

Function pointers are now allowed with default values for parameters. Any expression can be used as the default value of a function pointer parameter.

```ballerina
import ballerina/io;

public function main() {
    int num1 = 100;
    int num2 = 50;
    int num3 = 25;
    function (int a = 0, int b = 0, int c = 0) returns int total = getSum;

    io:println(total()); // Prints `0`.
    io:println(total(num1, num2)); // Prints `150`.
    io:println(total(num1, num2, num3)); // Prints `175`.
}

function getSum(int num1, int num2, int num3) returns int {
    return num1 + num2 + num3;
}
```

### Improvements

#### More improvements on working with optional fields

If there is an optional field `T x?;` in a record, the absence of `x` is represented by nil where `T` does not allow nil.

```ballerina

> type Topt record {

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
import ballerina/io;
type Employee record {
    int id?;
    string department?;
};

public function main() {
    Employee e = {id: 2, department: "HR"};
    e.id = ();
    e = {id: 3};
    var {id: _, department} = e;
    io:println(department is ()); // true

    int? idOrNil = ();
    e = {id: idOrNil, department: "Engineering"};
    io:println(e.id is ()); // true
}
```

> type Topt record {
>     int x?;
>     int y?;
> };
> 
> public function main() {
>     Topt t = {x: 2, y: 4};
>     t.x = ();
> 
>     t = {x: 2};
>     var {x: _, y} = t;
>     io:println(y is ()); // true
> 
>     int? xOrNil = ();
>     t = {x: xOrNil, y: 5};
>     io:println(t.x is ()); // true
> }

Author: ```suggestion
import ballerina/io;
type Employee record {
    int id?;
    string department?;
};

public function main() {
    Employee e = {id: 2, department: "HR"};
    e.id = ();
    e = {id: 3};
    var {id: _, department} = e;
    io:println(department is ()); // true

    int? idOrNil = ();
    e = {id: idOrNil, department: "Engineering"};
    io:println(e.id is ()); // true
}
```

### Backward-incompatible changes

#### Disallow using the `-9223372036854775808` unary expression as an integer

Previously, `-9223372036854775808` was allowed to be assigned to an integer in Ballerina. It is now disallowed to comply with the language specification, thus, attempting to assign `-9223372036854775808` to an `int` will now give an error.

```
int result = -9223372036854775808; // error: '9223372036854775808' is out of range for 'int'
```

## Compiler API updates

### Improvements

#### Syntax API
Added a few methods to the `NodeParser` API
The following methods have been introduced for the `NodeParser` class.
- `Node parseObjectMember(String text)`
- `ModulePartNode parseModulePart(String text)`
- `IntermediateClauseNode parseIntermediateClause(String text, boolean allowActions)`

### Backward-incompatible changes

#### Update NodeFactory methods to allow optional terminating semicolon for module-level declarations
The methods below in the `NodeFactory` have been updated with an extra parameter for the optional semicolon token.
- `createServiceDeclarationNode`
- `createFunctionBodyBlockNode`
- `createEnumDeclarationNode`

> - `createClassDefinitionNode`

Reviewer 4: This also should go under Syntax API right?

Author: fixed in [4098632](https://github.com/ballerina-platform/ballerina-release/pull/2180/commits/4098632007e5a40eb3339639fb327422a7889130)

### New features

> ##### Support to import a non-Ballerina interface definition as a module that defines a client
> 
> A module client declaration can be used with a supported non-Ballerina interface definition to generate a client module corresponding to the definition. The prefix used in the client declaration can then be used to access constructs from the generated module.
> 
> ```ballerina
> import ballerina/io;
> 
> client "petstore.yaml" as petstore;
> 
> public function main() returns error? {
>     petstore:client petstoreClient = check new;
> 
>     petstore:Pets pets = check petstoreClient->/pets();
> 
>     foreach petstore:Pet pet in pets {
>         string? petType = pet.'type;
> 
>         if petType is string {
>             io:println(string `Pet type: ${petType}, name: ${pet.name}`);
>         } else {
>             io:println(string `Pet name: ${pet.name}`);
>         }
>     }
> }
> ```
> 
> The reserved `client` keyword can be used in a qualified identifier (`petstore:client`) without a quoted identifier to refer to the client in the generated module. This is specifically allowed when the module prefix (`petstore`) is defined using a client declaration.
> 
> The Swan Lake Update 3 release supports OpenAPI and GraphQL definitions in client declarations.

Author: ```suggestion
```

Function pointers are now allowed with default values for parameters. Any expression can be used as the default value of a function pointer parameter.

```ballerina
import ballerina/io;

public function main() {
    int num1 = 100;
    int num2 = 50;
    int num3 = 25;
    function (int a = 0, int b = 0, int c = 0) returns int total = getSum;

    io:println(total()); // Prints `0`.
    io:println(total(num1, num2)); // Prints `150`.
    io:println(total(num1, num2, num3)); // Prints `175`.
}

function getSum(int num1, int num2, int num3) returns int {
    return num1 + num2 + num3;
}
```

### Improvements

#### More improvements on working with optional fields

If there is an optional field `T x?;` in a record, the absence of `x` is represented by nil where `T` does not allow nil.

```ballerina
import ballerina/io;

type Employee record {
    int id?;
    string department?;
};

public function main() {
    Employee e = {id: 2, department: "HR"};
    e.id = ();
    e = {id: 3};
    var {id: _, department} = e;
    io:println(department is ()); // true

    int? idOrNil = ();
    e = {id: idOrNil, department: "Engineering"};
    io:println(e.id is ()); // true
}

```

> #### Made the terminating semicolon optional for module-level declarations

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
#### Allow an optional terminating semicolon for module-level declarations
```
